README.md, before:

# Parcel + React

Parcel + React + Glitch = **`BEST.THING.EVER.`**

This is a very simple starter project that uses [Parcel](https://parceljs.org/) to build the client bundle, [Material UI](https://material-ui.com/) as the main React Component library, and [Express](https://expressjs.com/) in the backend.


## How to use this?

You can add more npm libraries in package.json, and use them in both the backend and the frontend. The frontend bundle is built on the fly by Parcel, and it already supports React, JSX, Less, Stylus, CSS etc., so you can focus on writing code instead of configuring your bundler (gone are the days of tweaking webpack.config.js).

If you have the site open on another tab (for example by clicking the `Show` button), you will see that every change you make to the frontend code (files in `frontend/`) is applied immediately on the live site, very quickly. This is possible thanks to the the fact that Parcel integrates Hot Module Reload, which is a shadow websocket server that communicates changes to the client bundle directly to all the open browsers.

On the other hand, changes to the backend code (files in `backend/`) require that you refresh the preview manually.


## Some example...?

Sure! This simple demo shows a custom "circular progress indicator". Click the `Show` button to see it. You might want to make it bigger. Let's change it!

1) Remix this project
2) Click `Show` to see the current state of the UI
3) Open the file `frontend/index.js`
4) On line 8, change the size parameter to 400.

Here you go! You should now see a bigger indicator in the preview.


## How does it work?

### Parcel

Parcel is doing the heavylifting here. If you don't know what it is, it's probably good that you check out its [website](https://parceljs.org/), but I'll try to describe it quickly here. Parcel is a "bundler", that is: it takes as input a bunch of JS, CSS, HTML files (and more!), and figures out how to create a set of output files (a "bundle") that browsers know how to use.

Parcel begins building its bundle from `frontend/index.html`. There, it sees that a script called `index.js` is required. So it adds `index.js` to its input files, and starts parsing it. In `index.js`, it sees more `require` and/or `import` statements, so it keeps adding those to its "input" files. At a certain point, it will have collected all the inputs: it does a few advanced transformations ("traspiles") of the source code, puts it all together, and creates a big `bundle.js` file (it's not exactly called like that, I just made up a name), and a new `index.html` file that now references `bundle.js` instead of `index.js`, and places them both in the `dist/` directory (not shown because it is in `.gitignore`, but you can see it using the Console).

If you check out `backend/server.js`, you'll see that it's indeed `dist/index.html` that is being served :)

### Parcel watch

Parcel also has a very cool feature, which is a "watcher": it is a process that runs in the background and updates the bundle when an input file is changed. This allows updates to

Commit message:

🍍👁 Checkpoint ./README.md:728660/2178 ./backend/utils.js:728660/112 ./backend/server.js:728660/274 ./watch.json:728660/26

README.md, after:

# Parcel + React

Parcel + React + Glitch = **`BEST.THING.EVER.`**

This is a very simple starter project that uses [Parcel](https://parceljs.org/) to build the client bundle, [Material UI](https://material-ui.com/) as the main React Component library, and [Express](https://expressjs.com/) in the backend.


## How to use this?

You can add more npm libraries in package.json, and use them in both the backend and the frontend. The frontend bundle is built on the fly by Parcel, and it already supports React, JSX, Less, Stylus, CSS etc., so you can focus on writing code instead of configuring your bundler (gone are the days of tweaking webpack.config.js).

If you have the site open on another tab (for example by clicking the `Show` button), you will see that every change you make to the frontend code (files in `frontend/`) is applied immediately on the live site, very quickly. This is possible thanks to the the fact that Parcel integrates Hot Module Reload, which is a shadow websocket server that communicates bundle updates to all the connected browsers.

On the other hand, changes to the backend code (files in `backend/`) require that you refresh the preview manually.


## Some example...?

Sure! This simple demo shows a custom "circular progress indicator". Click the `Show` button to see it. You might want to make it bigger. Let's change it!

1) Remix this project
2) Click `Show` to see the current state of the UI
3) Open the file `frontend/index.js`
4) On line 8, change the size parameter to 400.

Here you go! You should now see a bigger indicator in the preview.


## How does it work?

### Parcel

Parcel is doing the heavylifting here. If you don't know what it is, it's probably good that you check out its [website](https://parceljs.org/), but I'll try to describe it quickly here. Parcel is a "bundler", that is: it takes as input a bunch of JS, CSS, HTML files (and more!), and figures out how to create a set of output files (a "bundle") that browsers know how to use.

Parcel begins building its bundle from `frontend/index.html`. There, it sees that a script called `index.js` is required. So it adds `index.js` to its input files, and starts parsing it. In `index.js`, it sees more `require` and/or `import` statements, so it keeps adding those to its "input" files. At a certain point, it will have collected all the inputs: it does a few advanced transformations ("traspiles") of the source code, puts it all together, and creates a big `bundle.js` file (it's not exactly called like that, I just made up a name), and a new `index.html` file that now references `bundle.js` instead of `index.js`, and places them both in the `dist/` directory (not shown because it is in `.gitignore`, but you can see it using the Console).

If you check out `backend/server.js`, you'll see that it's indeed `dist/index.html` that is being served :)

### Parcel watcher

Parcel also has a very cool feature, which is a "watcher": it is a process that runs in the background and updates the bundle when an input file is changed. This allows updates to be applied very quickly! If you check the Logs (in the `Status` pane) after you make a change, you'll notice that Parcel says "Built in 24ms." Or something like that. It is able to update the whole bundle in just a few milliseconds!

Another thing that Parcel watch does for us is telling all the connected browsers when the bundle is changed. It does so by using a Hot Module Reload (HMR) system: it sends bundle updates through a websocket. In order to make this specific thing work on Glitch, we need a special "HMR proxy": it is defined in `backend/utils.js` and used in `backend/server.js`.

### watch.json

By default, Glitch restarts _the entire_ user app when a js file is changed (also json files and a few other extensions). This means that the Parcel watcher and HMR would be restarted too :( this would slow down updates quite a bit, and require the developer to manually refresh the preview after every change.

Gladly, this behavior can be customised with a file called `watch.json`. If you look at it in this project, this is exactly what it is doing: it is telling Glitch to only restart the user app when a _backend_ file is changed, or `.env`.

Additionally, it is telling Glitch to rerun the install step when you change package.json (since we want to get new dependencies if we add them there!).

There is also another setting: `noSavedEvents: true`. By default, Glitch refreshes the preview when a change happens, even if it doesn't trigger a restart or an install. But we don't want that! Because the HMR is updating the page for us. That's why we disab
